# The Zen of Python Teams: New Lessons

<https://github.com/adriennefriend>

The Zen of Python, accessed by running import this, is a list of nineteen
aphorisms that have guided the development of the language. It has good advice
for how to organize our code, but what does it have to say about how we organize
ourselves? Plenty: the Zen of Python is not only a solid set of development
principles, but the other easter egg is that itâ€™s packed with wisdom about how
to build healthy teams. In this talk I draw upon my time as a Director of happy
Python-focused engineering teams to tell stories of what the Zen of Python has
to teach us about communication and conflict, building inclusive teams and
transparent processes, and promoting psychological safety. Come ready to reflect
on and feel inspired by a new interpretation of these principles, and bring what
you learn back to your meetup, study group, open source project, or team. Who
and Why: This talk is for anyone who works with other humans on Python projects
in any capacity--at Meetups, study groups, on open source projects, or at work.
No background knowledge or experience is required, only an interest in learning
about communication and teamwork, and hearing examples from some teams that
struggled, but found ways to work together, better. While the context of the
talk is that the speaker leads Python teams, you absolutely don't have to manage
or lead a development team or even be on a professional development team to
learn from this talk. I hope to show how anyone can find fresh, insightful, and
personal meaning in the Zen of Python to communicate more clearly, handle
conflict more gracefully, document their processes more transparently, and
improve their relationships. Finally, in the closing part of this talk,
attendees will reflect on and develop an inspiring aphorism of their own that
speaks to the team they currently work most closely with. I will suggest they
share this new "21st aphorism" with their networks and team.

---

## Why Should You Stay

And listen to this talk.

Westrum typology of organisational cultures

- Pathological
- Bureaucratic
- Generative

Don't let things pass silently.

"Doing and being wrong is a lot better than not doing at all."

"On a healthy team, people sieze the now... comfortable that they'll never be
perfect"

@adriennefriend <https://twitter.com/adriennefriend>

---

Re: Happy Hour & encouraging participation:

Consistency is key, let ppl know it's opt-in, personal invite, put it on the
calendar. Be open to feedback, make it a collaborative engagement.
